# Joe's Currency Exchange Calculator

#### This application utilizes API calls and static methods to return a value based on data contained within a currency exchange API

#### By Joseph Nero 

### Description

This application utilizes API calls and static methods to return a value based on data contained within a currency exchange API. It also uses import and export statements to use the contents of a class across files. In particular, this application will calculate the amount of USD you enter in a currency of your choice. 

## Setup/Installation Requirements
#### If you have difficulty following any of the steps/instructions listed below, please contact me at josephnero111@gmail.com 

#### Software requirements 

1. A web browser to view the website. I recommend Google Chrome.
2. An API Key. You can register for an API key at [this link](https://www.exchangerate-api.com/). Instructions for how to sign up are below. 
2. Git Bash (or another terminal program) & Git.  
    - To clone the repository from Github using git commands in the terminal, you need a terminal program & Git. For Windows OS, I recommend the Git Bash terminal program. Installing Git Bash will also install Git. 
3. VSCode (or another code editor)
    - To view/edit this code, you need a code editor. I recommend VSCode. 
4. Node.js 
    - Node.js is a javascript runtime environment that you need to use npm, the preferred package manager for this application. You can download it at [this link](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
5. Detailed instructions to install Git Bash & VSCode can be found in the Setup/Installation Requirements section of the README for [this repo.](https://github.com/joey3001/first-friday-project)

#### To view this website online please use the following GH-Pages link: 

[Joe's Currency Exchange Calculator](https://joey3001.github.io/CurrencyExchangeWebsite/)

#### Please follow these instructions to sign up for a free API key. This is neccesary for you to run the project. 

1. Go to [this link](https://www.exchangerate-api.com/). Enter your email address and click on the button labeled "Get Free Key"
2. You should be brought to a dashboard that has your API Key displayed. 

#### Please follow these instructions to clone this project using git commands in the terminal. 

1. Open your terminal program and use the cd command to navigate to the directory in which you wish to clone this project. 
2. Use [this link](https://github.com/joey3001/CurrencyExchange) go to this project's repository on github. Click on the green button labeled "code" towards the right side of the page's center. Click on the HTTPS option and copy the presented URL. 
3. Use the following command in your terminal program to clone the repo :

            git clone https://github.com/joey3001/CurrencyExchange.git

#### Follow these instructions to use npm to install the project's required packages, enter your API key, and run the project. 

1. Make sure you've downloaded Node.js. If you haven't, you can download it at [this link](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
2. Use the cd command to enter the cloned directory. Once you are within the cloned directory, enter the following command into your terminal to install the project's required packages : 

            npm install

3. Create a new file in the project's root directory titled ".env"
4. In the newly created .env file, set a variable titled "API_KEY" to the api key generated by the exchangerate-api website. An example is below : 

            API_KEY = 214321432afdsjclkdjca1231.

3. Enter the following command into your terminal to build the project using the npm package manager : 

            npm run build

4. Use the following command to start a dev server which will run the project : 

            npm run start

#### Follow these instructions to view the code in the VSCode editor using commands in the terminal. 

1. Navigate to the project's root directory with the cd command if needed. If you're following this guide step-by-step, you should already be there. 

2. Once you are within the project's root directory, enter the following command into your terminal program to view all of the project's code in VSCode : 

            code . 

#### To download a file containing the contents of this repository to a location of your choice, please follow these instructions. 

1. Use a web browser to go to the repository webpage at [this link.](https://github.com/joey3001/CurrencyExchange)
2. Click on the green button labeled "code" towards the right side of the page's center. In the drop-down menu that opens, click on the button labeled "Download Zip."
3. Once your download is complete, open the zipped file. Click on the button labeled "Extract All" at the top of your file explorer. 
4. Choose the location in which you want to extract the files, and navigate to that location once this process is complete. 

## Known Bugs

No known bugs are present at this time. 

## Support and contact details

If you have an issue, reach out to me at josephnero111@gmail.com

## Technologies Used

  * HTML 
  * CSS
    - Bootstrap
  * Javascript
    - Jquery 
  * Node.js
  * VSCode 
  * Git
  * Github 
  * Git Bash
  * Exchange Rate API 


### License

[MIT License](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

Copyright (c) 2020 Joseph Nero 
